# Rules_and_Policies-University_Recreation_UTD.pdf
Rules and Policies
UT Dallas > University Recreation > About Us > Rules and Policies
The Activity Center (AC) and Rec Center West (RCW) are places of
enjoyment for the University community. Appropriate behavior is
required. Below are the rules and policies for use in the facilities.
All UT Dallas students, faculty, staff, and alumni must present
a valid University ID to use our facilities.  
Accepted forms of ID include Comet Card, Alumni Comet Card,
Active Membership Card, other University ID or the Get mobile
application (must be able to see their picture). 
To ONLY pass through the facility you must present a legal
form of ID (State ID, Driver’s License or Passport).  
Users whose behavior creates unsafe, hostile or otherwise
disruptive conditions will be asked to leave. 
Facilities and Natatorium (AC) hours are subject to change. 
UT Dallas cannot accept responsibility for
lost/stolen/damaged belongings/items or any injuries
sustained while participating.  
Personal items (bags, cellphones, etc.) should be stored in a
locker or kept with their person. 
Proper athletic attire is required when using our facilities. 
Proper athletic shoes (CLOSED TOE) are required in our
facilities. NO CROCS or YEEZY foam runners. 
Patrons must adhere to the policies of RCW/AC facilities and
staff instructions MUST be followed.  
Indoor soccer has priority in the AC Auxiliary gym on
Tuesdays from 10 p.m.–Close and Sundays from 12-2 p.m.  
Indoor volleyball and badminton will only be available at RCW
for the summer.
RCW main gym always has net priority unless reservations
are in place. 
RCW Net Priority Schedule and Policies (pdf) 
View the rules for: 
Activity Center and Rec Center West
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
1/11
Badminton (pdf) 
Racquetball (pdf) 
Squash (pdf) 
Swim only when lifeguard is on duty.
Diving is allowed in 9’0″ section only.
Shower before entering pool.
Proper swimming attire is required.
Follow all instructions from lifeguards.
During peak hours, users may be required to share lanes.
If you hear one long whistle blast, exit the pool immediately.
No one under the age of 17 is permitted in the fitness centers.
Exercise caution when using all fitness center equipment to
avoid injury to yourself or others.
Ask the attendant for assistance if you are not familiar with
the proper use of any equipment.
Athletic attire is required.
Athletic shorts or pants — no jeans.
Athletic shoes — no sandals, Crocs or Yeezy Foam
Runners.
Spotters are strongly recommended in the free weight area.
Collars/clamps are strongly recommended when using free
weights.
All bags, clothing, etc. must be stored along wall or in lockers.
No food or drinks allowed in the fitness centers. Plastic water
bottles are allowed.
All patrons are encouraged to help keep the fitness centers
clean by wiping the equipment down after each use. Cleaning
materials are provided throughout the fitness centers.
Re-rack weights and accessories after use.
Set weights down gently — do not drop.
Keep weights clear of windows and mirrors.
Weight belts may not be used on sectorized equipment (any
machines that use pulley and weight stack)
Time limits may be enforced during busy periods.
Use the equipment only for its intended purpose.
Follow all instructions from the attendant. Attendants have
the authority to ask individuals not abiding by the established
policies, or those creating an unsafe condition, to leave.
All participants must check in at the climbing desk with a valid ID
and fill out a waiver. Our staff will then:
Determine the patron’s climbing status;
Natatorium (AC)
Fitness Centers (AC and RCW)
Climbing Wall (AC)
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
2/11
Inform/remind patron(s) of climbing wall rules, or inform
them of new rules/concerns; and
Issue the appropriate equipment.
General Climbing Rules
You must be 17 years of age to climb on the climbing wall.
The climbing wall supervisor has the authority to ask anyone
to leave if behavior is deemed unsafe or in violation of the
rules.
No personal items, cellphones or electronic devices (i.e.
headphones/iPod), cutting devices (knives/keys), food or
drink, gum or tobacco are allowed in the climbing area at any
time.
Shoes are required at all times when climbing. No barefoot
climbing allowed. Hiking boots and sandals are not allowed
while climbing.
Only UT Dallas climbing wall staff may provide instruction at
the wall.
No personal equipment other than harness, shoes and chalk
bag are allowed while climbing. Note that loose chalk is not
allowed.
Do not step on ropes at any time.
Holds may spin. Check the tightness of a hold prior to
weighing it. If you notice a spinning hold, alert a staff member
who will fix it immediately.
Lastly, climb safe.
Bouldering
No body part of the climber shall exceed 12 feet.
Crash pads are recommended if bouldering on the climbing
wall.
Climbers who are bouldering must give the right-of-way to
roped climbers.
Roped Climbs
You must pass the Introduction to Climbing Skills Check to
top-rope belay.
Climbers must have a belayer. Solo climbing is not permitted
and all climbers must be protected by a top-rope belay unless
bouldering.
Keep off the top of the wall.
If a climber desires to use his or her own harness, it must be
approved by the climbing wall staff.
Harnesses must be double-backed at the waist and at the leg
loop buckles (if harness has this feature) when worn.
All top-rope climbers must clip, with carabiners opposite and
opposed, into the harness belay loop.
All belaying of top-rope climbers must be done using a UT
Dallas Gri-Gri belay device, attached to the belayer’s belay
loop on their harness by means of a UT Dallas locking
carabiner.
Always double check the climber’s knot, harness and belay
system before each climb. If in doubt, ask a climbing wall staff
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
3/11
member for an inspection prior to climbing.
Belayers must not allow excess slack in the belay rope.
Do not touch or hang from lead climbing anchors (bolt
hangers, quick draws, carabiners, etc.).
Equipment can be checked out from the control desk with a
valid membership card.
Patrons will be charged for lost, stolen or damaged
equipment. Patrons will be charged for any equipment not
returned within 48 business hours of the original checkout
date. 
Children under the age of 17 must be supervised by an adult
at all times. Violators will be asked to leave.
No children under the age of 17 are allowed in the Fitness
Center or on the Climbing Wall.
Non-members must present a valid photo ID. All sales are
final. No refunds.
Guests and community users cannot play basketball. 
Facility space for each event must be requested by submittal
of a University Recreation Facility Reservation Request.
Requests for facility use should be submitted at least 10
business days prior to the event. Allow three business days
for a response.
The user group must return a signed copy of the Letter of
Confirmation. In some cases, email confirmation will suffice.
No space is reserved without confirmation from University
Recreation.
Non-university events will be mailed a final invoice within 10
days upon completion of the event. Any payment required is
due 30 days after the event.
For on-campus groups and departments, a cost center is
required when submitting the request form. An auto journal
entry (JE) will be submitted quarterly (i.e. An auto JE will be
submitted in December for events held in September, October
and November).
Non-university groups are required to maintain public liability
and property damage. Minimum amounts apply and proof of
insurance is due before the event.
All members of the user group(s) are required to follow all
rules and regulations of UT Dallas during their usage of UT
Dallas facilities.
Equipment Checkout
Child Usage
Non-Member Usage
Facility Reservations
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
4/11
User groups are responsible for the actions of all members of
the group and will be responsible to make restitution for any
damages to UT Dallas property.
UT Dallas cannot accept responsibility for lost or stolen
property or injuries sustained while participating.
Patron is responsible for any damage or defacing to the locker
assigned to him/her.
Patron understands he/she must either renew or clear
assigned locker on or before the clearance date.
Patron understands the combinations will be changed on all
lockers that are not renewed by the clearance date.
University Recreation is not responsible for items left in
lockers after the clearance date.
Maximum of one day in advance.
Minimum of one hour in advance if a court is not in use.
One hour only — begins on the hour.
Reserve at the control desk or by calling 972-883-2090.
Reservations are held for 10 minutes only.
All UT Dallas students, faculty, staff and alumni must present
a valid University ID when using any of the outdoor facilities.
If you do not have a valid University ID, you will be asked to
leave.
If there is no reservation, the tennis courts, basketball courts,
disc golf course, multipurpose field and softball fields are
available on a first-come, first-served basis.
Use of the soccer fields is available only by reservation, made
via the University Athletics Department.
Lights are not left on past facility hours.
View the Disc Golf Map (pdf).
Basketball courts are open only to UT Dallas students, faculty
and staff.
Proper workout attire and court shoes are required.
No smoking, food, drinks or pets permitted on court.
Any misuse of the basketball facility will result in loss of
privileges.
Rollerblades, skateboards, scooters, motorized vehicles are
not permitted on the basketball court.
The court lights will be turned off when the Activity Center
closes.
Locker Usage
Racquetball/Squash Court Reservations
Outdoor Facilities
Basketball Courts
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
5/11
Any activity other than basketball must be approved by the
University Recreation Department by calling 972-883-2090.
Tennis courts are open only to UT Dallas students, faculty and
staff.
Proper workout attire and court shoes are required.
No smoking, food, drinks or pets permitted on courts.
Any misuse of tennis facility will result in loss of privileges.
Rollerblades, skateboards, scooters, motorized vehicles are
not permitted on the tennis courts.
The court lights will be turned off at 11 p.m. Sunday-Thursday
and 9 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
Reservations or any activity other than tennis must be
approved by the University Athletics Department by calling
972-883-4497.
Slacklining is a practice in which a participant walks across a
tensioned length of nylon webbing, intended for climbing,
slacklining or similar load-bearing purposes. The webbing runs
parallel to the ground and is affixed firmly at each end. It is brought
to tension by a responsible individual with either a pulley system or
a purpose-specific ratchet. Any such activity practiced on UTD
grounds or with UTD property is regulated by the following policy.
Assumption of Risk
Any person walking a slackline, or any person setting up or taking
down a slackline, assumes inherent risks. Such risks may include,
but are not limited to, injury, paralysis and death. Participants take
full responsibility for both following these guidelines and using
their slacklining equipment safely.
General Procedures
Any slackline is to be affixed by a knowledgeable operator.
Furthermore, it is to be set up strictly on a temporary basis.
When not in use, the slackline must be taken down. Equipment
will be removed without notice and stored by University
Recreation, if abandoned.
Slacklines may only be affixed from dawn until dusk; darkness
is not a suitable condition for safe practice.
Slacklines are available for free check out at the control desk
in the Activity Center. A valid photo ID is needed to check out a
slackline.
The slackline equipment kit comes with the line, ratchet,
ratchet cover and instructions for assembly, anchoring and
dismantling.
Inspection of the equipment kit will be conducted before check
out and after return. Users may be held responsible for any
damages to equipment.
It is the sole responsibility of the participant to ensure all
personal equipment is maintained properly and kept in
Tennis Courts
Slacklining Area
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
6/11
working condition. Using equipment that is not maintained or
regularly inspected may increase one’s risk while practicing
the sport.
It is strongly recommended that any participant have a
spotter.
The only anchors to which slacklines may be attached on
campus are the wooden slacklining poles located south of the
Activity Center and Lot J, and just north of the varsity softball
field.
Unsanctioned Activity
University Recreation and UTD Police reserve the right to
enforce this policy, for both the safety of others and the
functionality of the University. Disregarding or disobeying this
policy may result in violations of the student code of conduct
or criminal charges.
No more than one person may walk on a slackline at any given
time.
No running on the slackline at any time.
An unweighted slackline may not rest higher than 3 feet off
the ground.
Slacklines may not exceed 35 feet in length.
Buildings, light posts, fence posts, bike racks, benches, trees
or other such unapproved anchors may not be used. The only
suitable anchors are the wooden slacklining poles located
south of the Activity Center and Lot J, and just north of the
varsity softball field.
A participant may not be under the influence of alcohol or
drugs. To do so assumes great risk.
Slacklines may only be strung above grass and dirt. A
slackline is never to be set up that crosses over, or passes
within 15 feet of a sidewalk, paved walkway, road, or similar
surface that carries pedestrian, bicycle, or automobile traffic.
Stunts or tricks involving flips are strictly prohibited.
UTD reserves the right to direct that any slackline equipment
be taken down immediately, for any reason.
All rental equipment is available to current UTD students and
University Recreation members upon presentation of an
active Comet Card. Non-members are not permitted to check
out equipment.
Equipment can be rented from the control desk at Rec Center
West and is available on a first-come, first-served basis and
subject to availability. Reserving rental equipment is not
allowed.
Equipment may be rented for a maximum of seven days.
The individual signing the Rental Agreement accepts
responsibility for the equipment and any fees or charges that
may incur.
Payment in full is expected at the time of pickup. Credit card is
the only form of payment accepted; no cash, check or
Camping Equipment Policies
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
7/11
UTDollars.
No credit or refunds will be issued for items rented but not
used or for early returns.
Daily rates are determined by a 24-hour period.
Individuals abusing equipment or not following procedures
may be ineligible to rent equipment in the future.
Returns and fees:
To return equipment, please visit the control desk in Rec
Center West during normal operating hours (at least 30
minutes prior to closing). Equipment returned to the
Activity Center will not be accepted or considered as
returned equipment.
Equipment is to be returned in clean and operational
condition. Items returned soiled or excessively wet will
be charged a cleaning fee.
Damaged or lost equipment will be assessed fees at the
current retail rate for repair or replacement.
Equipment returned late will be charged late fees.
General Care and Recommendations
University Recreation recommends that renters have prior
knowledge and experience about using outdoor camping
equipment.
Before You Go
Check for proper equipment and its function before you leave.
Research the activity area. Know the terrain, weather and
conditions to be encountered.
Have an emergency plan. Let someone not attending the
activity know the destination, expected return and the plan,
just in case.
Know your limits and abilities. You cannot rely on being just a
phone call away from help.
Take care of natural areas. Follow Leave No Trace minimum
impact guidelines.
Upon Your Return
Notify staff of any damage or missing pieces.
Do not attempt to repair equipment in your possession, as this
may cause further damage.
Check tent for proper parts prior to using.
Never allow a tent to come into direct contact with heat
sources (i.e. fire, stove, gas lantern, etc.). Tent material is
highly flammable.
Do not wear shoes/boots or allow pets inside tent.
Shoes/boots and pets can rip and tear the tent floor.
Do not store food in the tent. Animals attracted to food can
cause serious damage.
Do not smoke in tents. Nylon is flammable and will absorb the
odor.
Tent Usage
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
8/11
Be gentle. Do not force zippers, straps and buckles.
Secure the tent to the ground. Wind can cause serious
damage to an unsecured tent.
Keep tent and storage bags organized.
Do not allow the shock cord to snap the pole sections together
as this can cause damage to the poles.
Before Returning
Check that all parts and pieces are included.
Tents and tent parts should be returned, organized and in the
individual storage bags.
Clean and air-dry tent to avoid additional fees. To clean, wipe
with a damp cloth or sponge.
Do not wash tent in washing machine.
Retail Replacement Costs
Camping tarp – $15
LED lantern – $15
Ice chest – $45
Hammock and straps – $105 (hammock-$70/straps-$35)
2-person tent – $70
4-person tent – $130
Sleeping bag package – $130 (Bag-$70/Liner-$40/Pad-$20)
Each participant must present his or her current, valid Comet Card
prior to each contest in all Intramural Sports and events.
Intramural Sports staff may conduct random in-game identification
checks. Therefore, each participant shall be able to present his/her
Comet Card at the game site upon request. Participants may also
be required to supply additional identifiable information (class
schedule, driver’s license, etc.) in order to verify their identity for
participation in an intramural game or event. If it is determined that
the given information or Comet Card is invalid, the game may be
forfeited for use of an ineligible player.
Game time is forfeit time. Teams must be signed in and ready to
play at game time. A forfeit is recorded as a loss and results in a
sportsmanship rating of “0.” The first forfeit will result in the loss of
the forfeit fee and the second forfeit will result in the team being
dropped from that league.
If a team/individual forfeits once during the regular season, they
may regain playoff eligibility with a one-time, playoff reinstatement
payment of $30. This payment must be made before 5 p.m. on the
following business day.
Intramural Sports
ID Policy
Forfeits
Defaults
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
9/11
Due to the busy schedules of most students, there will be times
when a team or individual will not be able to make their scheduled
game. In this instance, the team or individual may communicate to
the Intramural Sports office via email or phone that they will not be
present. This must be done by 5 p.m. on the day of the scheduled
game to allow enough time to call the opposing team or individual
and to make any other personnel changes that may result. In the
event of a default, the team or individual will:
Receive a loss.
Not be assigned any sportsmanship rating.
Still be eligible for the playoffs.
Be eligible to get their forfeit fee returned.
Games that are rained out are not guaranteed to be rescheduled,
but may be rescheduled at the discretion of the assistant director of
Competitive Sports. In the event a game cannot be rescheduled,
each team will receive a win for the scheduled contest. In case of
inclement weather, messages will be sent from administration
through email and text via IMLeagues and announcements will be
shared on University Recreation social media handles @utdurec for
Instagram, Facebook and X (Twitter).
Absolutely no alcohol or tobacco is allowed in the Intramural
playing areas. If either is present, the contest will not be played and
will be considered a forfeit. This policy includes spectators. The
supervisor and/or officials have the authority and responsibility to
make decisions regarding students who are not permitted to play.
University Police may be notified.
Participation is a privilege, not a right.
The Sportsmanship Rating System is intended to be an objective
scale by which teams’ attitudes and behaviors can be assessed
throughout the Intramural Sports league and playoff seasons.
Behavior before, during and after an Intramural Sports contest is
included in the rating. The team captain is responsible for educating
and informing all players and spectators affiliated with his/her
team about the system.
Teams are responsible for the actions of their individual team
members and spectators. The team captain’s efforts in assisting
officials/staff to calm difficult situations and to restrain troubled
teammates are imperative to controlling team conduct.
Sportsmanship is vital to the conduct of every intramural contest.
In order to encourage proper conduct during games, officials,
administrative personnel and supervisors shall make decisions on
whether to warn, penalize, or eject players, spectators, or teams for
Rainouts
Alcohol & Tobacco Policy
Sportsmanship
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
10/11
poor sportsmanship. These decisions are final. The Intramural
Sports administrative staff will rule on further penalties as a result
of unsportsmanlike conduct.
Each participant should choose his or her team members carefully,
as all team members will suffer the consequences of any
disciplinary action taken by the Intramural Sports staff against the
team for violation of the Intramural rules and sportsmanship
guidelines.
Intramural Sports reserves the right to amend any policy without
prior notice. Any policy not mentioned herein is left to the discretion
of the assistant director of Competitive Sports. For items not
included in this section, please review Intramural Sports Policies
and Procedures (pdf).
Privacy Policy
FEB
10
Vinyasa Yoga
FEB
10
Somatic Yoga
FEB
10
Cardio Dance
FEB
10
Vinyasa Yoga
FEB
11
Yin Yoga
University Recreation
800 W. Campbell Road, AB10
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
© The University of Texas at Dallas
09/02/2025, 10:02
Rules and Policies - University Recreation | The University of Texas at Dallas
https://urec.utdallas.edu/about-us/rules-and-policies/
11/11